what if I told you that your currency
could be devalued by 40 well the Federal
Reserve has stated that they will do
this if necessary what do I mean by
necessary I will give that to you today
the documented facts as to what the
Federal Reserve has actually said in
this video we're going to look at a few
aspects of the economy and what's
happening exactly and you got to stay
through this video to get all the pieces
because I'm going to connect the dots
right here and now my name is David
gutierre and I have been doing this for
well over a decade I bring you the
latest and greatest information I spend
the hours a day so that you don't have
to let's begin by looking at the Federal
Reserve first things first the Federal
Reserve is sending mixed signals that's
what this is really about with all of
svb the bank crisis the market is
confused as to whether the FED is
tightening or easing we try to follow
what they're going to do and right now
the market doesn't know what which way
to follow the fed this is exactly what
they've been programmed to do for so
long and yet the Federal Reserve is
doing what maybe somebody might do
they're going on a date with somebody
and they're ghosting them they're not
answering the phone call then they're
texting and then they're not responding
back what's going on what's the deal
let's grow up and let's get to the
message right are we going to do it are
we gonna not gonna do it you know you
use your imagination what we're talking
about here okay
but then we bring ourselves into the
pages of history back to 2002 and we get
this speech I classify this as the most
important speech in Federal Reserve
history I get a question about this
every single time if you want to find
this speech the link will be in the
description under the sources but you
can search online for fed Bernanke
speech 2002 you will find it here we
have it I want to show you this okay
directly from the speech itself
I am confident that the FED would take
whatever means necessary to prevent
prevent significant deflation in the
United States and moreover that the U.S
Central Bank in cooperation with other
parts of the government as needed has
sufficient policy instruments to ensure
that any deflation that might occur
would be both mild and brief do you
understand what he's saying here he's
saying under all conditions we are going
to print money and we are going to
devalue the currency as a result that's
what happens they admit this and we will
make sure that deflation doesn't happen
you know how I think that they will not
allow deflation to happen let me read
you the title of this speech deflation
making sure it quote doesn't happen here
like I mean you can't be any more
specific than that he literally called
that's the speech he he said I mean come
on
the example of the 40 that I give you at
the uh you know the start of this video
he's referring specifically to what
happened in 1933 so he covers that in
here
saying specifically that they devalue
the currency of 40 and you know kind of
suggests that they'll do anything and
that's the example that he's using so it
could be more than 40 percent
but he's saying look at what we did that
was fantastic
it was necessary we did it we made it
happen as long as deflation is not
persistent so knowing this information
you know that the policy is inflation
there could be some deflation for sure
but the central banks are going to react
accordingly and as a result of that you
know that
Ben Bernanke said it's in black and
white right here
you know that information where does
that bring us
well we'll talk more about that how does
that sound will you stay with me let's
go
now I wanted to show you something
because if you look at what's happening
with in this case the bank of England
they look at what they have done and in
my opinion it has been uh quite terrible
to say the least because of their idea
that they can do anything including
price controls
race controls what they talked about
here is essentially
um the the fact that they want to get
the interest rates to be higher than
what they thought they would have needed
initially that's what this is all about
the page had refreshed anyway here we go
so essentially looking at a higher rate
than needed what does that mean slower
growth that's all same thing in the UK
as in the US as in other places they
need higher interest rates in order to
push this along
Britain is getting so desperate to tame
inflation it's talking about food price
caps when you encounter price controls
wage you know all these different
manipulations that they do
you you just create these distortions
and that's never a good thing what's
gonna happen if you're a farmer if
you're a producer manufacturer whatever
and they're saying you cannot sell that
product let's just pick anything bananas
okay
you cannot sell your bananas for more
than will make up another number a
dollar a pound
and somebody says okay but it's costing
me a dollar fifty to to produce that to
package it to get it to the customer so
I'm gonna lose 50 cents on each pound
well it doesn't make any sense so I have
two options at this point I can entirely
forego my business I can shut it down
and I can just simply pack up and move
on I can maybe or maybe I can just feed
myself with that
or I can say well maybe if I can't sell
it domestically maybe there's a loophole
I can sell it internationally so now I'm
not feeding the people of my own country
I'm selling this abroad
now do you see a problem with this these
price controls are never going to
resolve an issue even in the medium term
maybe in the short term
maybe but as the farmers as these
manufacturers these suppliers they start
feeling the price increases they they
can't deal with it they're gonna say
forget it I'm packing up so you might
not like it you might say no no that's
not fair or they shouldn't be doing this
and this and that but these businesses
cannot be all run by the government some
people want the government to run every
single business have control over every
business and like they do in China have
people in established in big businesses
so that they can make sure that the
government policies are dictated all the
way down the line
it's not a way that is the most
beneficial okay the most beneficial way
is to actually allow prosperity and
freedom and what they're doing here is
not going to resolve it if you print
trillions of dollars or pounds you're
going to have problems
you're going to have wrong if you're
going to you know uh all this relief
remember the whole relief funding and
everything like this you're just gonna
give to anybody who signs a form
you're going to give them billions of
dollars because that's what happened how
many businesses do you know you can put
it in the comments below
how many businesses do you know maybe
you work for those companies that didn't
need that funding at all they took the
funding and it was forgiven
that funding was forgiven
oh there's there's billions and billions
and billions of it that was your
taxpayer dollars
that's just the way I see it okay it is
a concern as far as
like the way that I'm looking at this
okay you you can't manage that
now we took a look at the next part of
this you want to know what's going to
happen you want to see it for yourself
no
the FED funds rates you can see this
throughout the Cycles just pay attention
that funds rate 1970 up until the day
every time we hit a peak in the cycle a
crisis follows it's a simple matter of
fact is this time different I don't know
if you go on Reddit I went on that
website a couple times oh yeah this time
is different
um who else says it you know
all these YouTube gurus and everything
when they go into a cycle they are
aiming to create a problem but it's just
I know that people don't like to hear
that so I'm all those just back off of
that
here we go there are all there are
merging signs that the U.S labor market
May finally be softening as tighter
credit conditions for small businesses
and declining corporate margins start to
affect hiring decisions the U.S
manufacturing sector may already be in a
recession so the point here is if you
look at what's going on in the economy
there are some real Tell-Tale signs that
there are problems that there are
established problems right in the
economy now we don't have to look for a
future date it all depends on how we
measure it this happens to be another
way gross domestic income also known as
GDI suggests the US is in a recession
right now so I'm going to show you this
chart but I'm going to explain the GDI
GDI and GDP are two slightly different
measures of a nation's economic activity
so GDI counts what all participants in
the economy make or quote take in wages
profits taxes GDP counts the value of
what the economy produces good services
and Technology one of the Core Concepts
of macroeconomics is that income equals
spending which means that the GDI will
be the same as GDP in an economy at
equilibrium but guess what we don't have
that today we're not in an equilibrium
that's for sure and you measure that
looking at this chart and it is in the
negative so it is showing us a recession
today but they don't say that they're
not going to admit that and I wouldn't
expect in fact wouldn't even expect them
to admit through this cycle that there's
a recession
so don't right
however I think it is very clear what we
can see today is that some areas are are
actually weakened quite a bit
so that's it look you got to see the
interest payments gradually consuming
the entire federal budget
the amount of money that's going into
just paying off the debt is so excessive
and it's becoming more than anything
else
you're just think about like your
mortgage for instance somebody that's
like way over leveraged oh my goodness
out of the bank even give me this
mortgage and they're just like that huge
payment is the mortgage and then they
get this little bit left for everything
else and what if variable rate mortgage
oh my God now suddenly
I got all I'm doing is paying debt and
more
I don't have any income anymore it's
just not paying anything off
that's what the US is doing right here
today that's what other countries are
doing as well and it never ends well but
you the individual you stayed into this
part of the video and so I have to tell
you something we know that they are
going for an inflationary policy that's
established there are the deflationists
out there it's it's um
odd very odd and I noticed as
a growing number of them going towards
deflation there could be act in let me
be clear there could be instances of
deflation and we get hit hard but what
is the response to that it is a
devaluation of the currency we know
their plans
we know this so what do you do part of
that is what I call right here pillars
of prosperity so you have to number one
be more self-sufficient have your
preparedness in place number two is
about your income you must increase your
income at all costs I have done this
video right over here which I'll pop up
on the screen which is all about earning
extra income I break it down I get into
it you have to watch it click this video
and I'll see you there